We're rolling now.
Good.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Well, what paradox?
Why don't you say why you think there's a paradox?
What is a paradox?
Okay.
I get the reaction a lot, but I find it useful to make people say, so what is it actually?
Well, a person whose focus of study is classical.
is the classics on the one hand, which seems to be as concerned as any academic discipline about where we're going with technology, particularly in terms of it also involved in the, I guess, and you do address this in your book, you know, the
The great books debate, the canon debate, maybe the classics in some schools of thought will be slipping by the wayside with all of this.
It seems, I guess on the face of it, it looks like a paradoxical situation.
Well, let me point to something in that.
Classics, in the first century AD, there were no classics.
But no computers either.
No computers either.
But no classicist.
Classicist is a category that only comes into existence when you're at a distance away from things that you're talking about.
And even in sort of the most aggressive, fashionable rewritings of a canon,
It's got to be published.
It's got to be reached an audience before anybody's going to put it on a list.
You don't put Don DeLillo's next unpublished book on your reading list until some audience has had a look at it and made sure that it's actually worth reading.
In fact, Classicist, as we practice it, is very much a creature of the world of print, and it's really...
Though we tell ourselves stories that kind of conflict with this, it's really a creature of the 19th and 20th century.
The things we classics professors are, students of classics are, the things we do are heavily implicated in 19th and 20th century technology, culture, society, and so forth.
The stuff I do with the picture of Jerome and so forth is a way of getting at how we build up stories for ourselves where we give ourselves more of a pedigree and stretch ourselves more into the past to think that we've always been.
And we've been doing this.
In fact, we're not.
And I guess I would say that if I deceive myself into thinking that classicist is a very long-term kind of thing to be,
And having deceived myself that way, then hang on fiercely to late 19th and early 20th century cultural and technological practices.
I'm deceiving myself, and I'm pretty much guaranteeing myself obsolescence and irrelevance in pretty short order.
If I change around my imagination of what I am and think of myself as somebody...
studious about both ancient cultures and their cultural products and then reflecting intelligently on my own culture, which I think I ought to do if I'm going to study ancient culture responsibly and keep doing it, then the media of communication that I use, the tools that I use, are purely instrumental in that goal.
I think the risk
run when we become nostalgic is fetishizing the instrument and in so doing failing to let it help us get at the thing that it's supposed to help us.
But I think that you discuss topics in this book.
I mean, it seems to go beyond the fetishizing of an instrument.
I mean, where the instrument itself actually is going to influence how the material...
If you don't fetishize the instrument, you can become more conscious of what it is, different ways you could use it, things it does to the people who use it, things it does to the things you use it on.
Let me give you an example.
My friend Cassiodorus, whom I read about in there, he wrote a handbook of... It would make a great website, what it would make.
Say again, I'm sorry?
He wrote a handbook of
It's a sort of bibliography of Christian study, as it was in his time in the 6th century AD.
A handbook of scripture study, a handbook of all the things you needed to know in order to study scripture.
And he was a book collector, and so he talked about the various books he had, and he even had little finding lists.
And here are some more books that I'm sure would be very useful, but I haven't found copies yet.
If anybody finds them, I'd be glad to know about it, and so forth.
No kidding, this was in the 6th century?
6th century, yeah.
What was the title of this particular work?
It's called Institutione.
Okay, it was the Institutione.
Okay.
And it's a bibliography.
It's a student's guidebook to studying everything you needed to know to be a learned and educated person by Cassiodora Flights, which was, to say, heavily involved in Christian studies and so forth.
But here's the trick.
When Cassiodorus wrote that book in the 6th century, he wrote it by hand, or scribes working for him actually wrote the copies that were in circulation.
It was heavily illustrated, but illustrated with diagrams.
He has seven chapters devoted to the seven liberal arts, how each one of the liberal arts can help you understand scripture, how understanding astronomy helps you understand scripture better.
And so he has very schematic kinds of diagrams and categories, I think most easily of the ones in his book on logic, where he tells you the nine different kinds of one sort of argument and 12 different versions of a syllogism.
Sixth century links, in other words.
But what he did was he did what you'd find in a textbook today, diagrams where he's got the header is the name of the kind of argument, and there's 12 lines.
on the page, branching out to the 12 types of argument.
And then the text that follows will say argument number one is less and such argument, and number two is less and such and so forth.
But the point was the page had this visual help to understanding the argument and remembering it.
These were also illustrated so that there would be animals or human figures worked in to the diagram of the 12 kinds of argument.
We discuss now whether, in fact, some of that was, how that was designed to make it easier to memorize this stuff, basically.
How do you memorize a 12-hand argument?
Did the diagram help?
Were you remembering the diagram by remembering something about the animal whose picture was next to it, so that you knew that it was a deer next to the diagram about arguments?
Well,
Can I interject a question?
You know this phrase, obviously you know this phrase, the authorial intention.
Is it therefore essential if you're going to read Cassiodorus properly and completely that you read the full context, that it's not enough to have the text, the hypertext, I always say, but you have to have these illustrations and these drawings?
Well, I would say so.
I'd like you to see those, let's put it that way.
But here's my point.
This is a book that, for a variety of reasons, didn't get a lot of scholarly attention in early modern times.
The only editions in print 65 years ago were quite bad 7th century editions.
Somebody had one copy of the manuscript, transcribed off the text, printed it with a lot of errors, and had been reprinted many, many times.
So there's a famous edition done in 1937 by an English scholar.
which was vastly an improvement on all that went before.
Is this a translation?
No, an edition of the last.
Okay, wait a second.
He's gone back and looked at a whole bunch of manuscripts and did a much better job of analyzing and just reporting accurately what was in them, comparing them, correcting them, and so forth.
But 1937, when you published a critical edition, what he did was eliminated all of the illustrations,
And most of the diagrams.
The diagrams didn't work for him.
In 1937, he imagined his job as one that was putting the words in printed form.
And when you've read the words in printed form, you've read the book.
Well, scholarship on that text now gets at just the point you're making.
If you're going to do a proper job of editing this book, you ought to realize that one of the things that comes with this book is diagrams.
And you're not presenting the book until you show diagrams.
Who is this scholar, the English scholar, by the way?
His name is Minors, M-Y-N-O-R-S, by his initials R-A-B.
I'm going to be at Widener today, maybe I'll see you.
Roger Aubrey Baskerville Miners.
Well, I will even, I should be, I'm going to make a couple of notes, and I will, you've got World Wide Web access tonight.
I do, yeah.
I'll make a couple of notes, and I've got a couple of these illustrations online.
Oh, great, great.
Terrific, yeah, excellent.
I'm working on a book of my own right now.
In fact, I'll ask a few questions a little bit later, even about St.
Jerome.
Anyway, my point is here that the original thing Cassiodorus wrote was written on parchment in the 6th century AD in one set of conditions of production and consumption of text.
which happened to favor, as long as you were doing a book, which was a very expensive thing to do, doing it with illustrations and layout and presentation and so forth.
The modern printed book has, on the other hand, this very austere aesthetic of black type on white pages.
Illustrations somehow make a book less serious rather than more for us.
And illuminated letters and that sort of thing are...
fussy or expensive or something.
And so we tended to prefer for a very long time the plain, simple black letters on white page.
And you can get into arguments about that going back to all the Renaissance and so forth.
With the World Wide Web, and I've got actually a friend in Milan who's talking about this, you can begin to imagine how if the printed book was one way of representing 6th century manuscript books,
A worldwide web page could be another equally useful and in some ways better way of representing that 6th century manuscript book.
You could actually see the whole darn thing.
You could both have the deciphered text in Roman font that you can read easily, but next to it you can have a very high quality image of exactly the thing the guy produced.
and let people get more directly at the book itself.
When you start thinking that way, you realize that the printed book is not necessarily the only or the best or the most privileged form of representing information that didn't originally come in
in printed book form.
It's got strengths and it's got weaknesses and other tools will have their strengths and weaknesses too.
This all goes back to your question about the paradox.
Is it paradoxical for me to do this stuff?
I don't think so.
I'm greedy and curious and eager to know about these ancient things in every way I can and I see it as simply an interest in using every tool and technique that comes to hand to get at it.
If you shouldn't fetishize the book, you also shouldn't fetishize the computer.
There's no reason to say the computer is some magical, perfect, final, best of all possible tools for me.
There are some things the printed book does better than the computer does.
For instance?
At the moment, walks around with you.
Well, that's just mere function, though, I think, but not to be dismissed.
I mean, to trivialize, but... Not to be dismissed.
Well, but what's mere function?
What's mere function?
I got an email message from a former student the other day saying, Jim, it's great that your articles are up online, but we don't have that journal in our library.
Couldn't have put the page numbers in it.
Well, I said that's a lot better to work, and I don't like to get the page numbers that are up.
But indeed, we have learned how to use the purely accidental fact
that words regularly appear on the same page in every copy of a book, as a strategy, rough and ready, from an index and whatnot, and table book content, of getting at the information quite efficiently.
And you and I are real good at picking up a book, looking at the table of content, looking at the index, browsing it quickly.
We can find our way through a book really, really well.
We don't yet have native forms of presentation of information from electronic media that I find as easy
to take a quick glance at, to get a sense of what's going on there, to leap through, to browse, to have a sense that I've really looked at this thing and have an idea about what it is.
It's even just hard when you look at links on a page to know which one is the article and which one is the book.
If I go to the library, I can tell the difference between a six-volume book and a pamphlet right away.
And I reach for one or the other depending on what I think I might want.
We're not there yet.
All of that is, in a way, incidental and contingent, and I'm sure electronic media will find various ways to do some of these things better and in more standardized ways as we go along.
But on the other hand, I think the physical book will preserve.
I think for the serious scholar, to go back to your example, the Cassiodorus, the manuscript copy there, and of course the computer can give you every page.
I mean, it's just a question of accessibility.
Another old paradox.
But let me just finish here.
But there are times when you, I think, absolutely have to have that artifact in hand.
I mean, if you're talking about the color of the ink or you're talking about strikeovers or certain things that you absolutely have to examine the artifact, I think.
There's actually a paradox of people observing it as they begin to make.
One of the things that rare book librarians think is, oh, good.
We can digitize images of all of our really precious stuff.
and that will reduce the amount of wear and tear from idle users just coming by saying, oh, could I please see your fancy edition?
But they don't let idle users.
The problem is they're discovering that when you digitize images of your stuff, you're now making it readily available to a great many more people, and the actual traffic showing up at your desk saying, may I look at that rare edition of X is going up.
Because more people have been able to process it without looking at it and actually have a serious reason now.
They've seen something in the image and they want to look at it.
Yeah, and it's not going to be browsing.
I mean, they're going with a specific... Yeah, right.
They're not just saying, can I please look at that?
They're saying, I've got to look at Folio 94 on that one, please.
Because they know what it is they're going and looking for.
And maybe that really is the function of a rare books library and special collections.
It really isn't for the idle browser, you know?
I think you're exactly right.
I think you will see, in fact, a kind of oscillating access question there.
After you've seen an image of portfolio 94, and then after you've looked at page 94, there are techniques and technologies now that people are working on
which can take even the physical artifact and see it better than you can see it with your native eye.
I've seen presentations where people look at ancient wood.
They're thin slices of wood that people wrote letters on.
And when they're preserved from the ancient world, it's often hard to tell the difference between where they've been written on and where there's just a smudge or a mark or a blur of some kind.
And so what these guys now do is use the high-powered microscope photographer and play light over the surface.
And as the light moves across the surface, if it was written, it's likely to have had some indentation in the surface.
And that makes a shadow change as you play light across it.
But if it's just a smudge on the surface, nothing changes if you play light across it.
It doesn't move.
And so having...
looked at an ordinary photograph, then looked at the thing, they can then go back to this very rarefied form of computer image analysis.
Did you see that piece in the New York Times last week with the Thomas Jefferson letter?
where they actually sent the letter to the FBI.
I didn't see that one, but okay.
And they scanned it and they did some of the things you just described to actually find what he had written underneath a word, to reveal a word.
And actually the context, the contextual change was pretty interesting.
This is now seeing something that...
You have seen something that was there, but it was impossible to see it if you just had the physical artifact.
That's right.
Well, I mean, all that is the interplay between the two, you know.
And I think it's really just a case of if you've got multiple ways of getting at something and you really want to get at it, you're foolish not to use as many of them as you can.
So the shape and the heft and the feel of the book is not something that... I find that argument getting less and less interesting myself, frankly, the more I get into it, the changing.
This apparently is not something that overly concerns you.
Look, I'm sitting in an office in which there is one working... No, two working computers.
Let me look around.
Two museum-piece computers.
I still have my original K-Pro2 here.
And at a rough count, I would say...
500 books, 700 books.
I'll start worrying about my being too hept on these computer gadgets when that numerical balance begins to shift.
For the moment, it's not.
Tell me, to go back to the original question, and I would be on the paradox now, but to use the cliché, do you wear two hats?
Are they distinctive pieces of apparel, or are they more or less manifestations of one?
Other people see two hats.
I see one.
I feel one.
It's partly a question of...
I guess I would say the personal style I've brought to what I do.
I have never, in using computers, been too much involved in the highest and fanciest experimental applications.
I have rather lagged by always about a tenth of a generation trying to use stuff when it becomes fairly widely available.
when it becomes a working tool.
That doesn't mean I don't think people should be experimenting.
We need the people experimenting.
But for my teaching, for example, I'd rather use stuff at a point when a wide range of my students can take advantage of it than when it's at the point where you have to have a special piece of hardware and a special technician standing by to make it work.
That can be very exciting, and that's how we prove concepts and make stuff happen.
I really wait until the stuff is instrumental and then use it.
And for that reason, I find it easy to understand myself as a mild-mannered professor of classics from West Texas, just trying to do my job as well as I can and using a variety of available means in order to do that.
and understand how it doesn't necessarily always seem that way to other people, but that's how it feels from inside my head.
What are the responsibilities and duties of the Vice Provost for Information Systems and Computing?
Well, in the jargon of the day, Chief Information Officer.
The organization that I had run, the Campus Data Network, and our connection to the Internet,
It runs all of the administrative systems that get us paid and so forth.
And I think getting paid is one of the things that makes classical professors what they are.
So I'm actually involved in doing that.
And we're both involved in academic computing, but also in large universities like this, coordinating academic computing across the university and trying to get the maximum.
bang for our buck, as it were.
So I'm specifically involved in things like classroom technology, classroom technology upgrades, distance learning programs.
We're talking to outside.
Is Penn doing that?
We're getting into that.
I can give you the URL for the provost report from a couple of weeks ago.
We've got a couple of outside partners who are providing some of the technology and will provide some content.
We will be doing it with, in the at the outset,
continuing professional education and professional master's degrees, lifelong learning for professionals of one kind or another.
But we're also looking at, we're going to start in the fall, college courses for highly motivated secondary school students, both for the value that it gives them and also, frankly, as a marketing device for delivering to the University of Pennsylvania content
around the country and eventually around the world and the way it makes it think about us.
Are you involved at all in programs?
I spent a couple days last year with Cornell for this chapter I'm working on.
Of course, Cornell is really elaborately involved in the digitization of texts as a preservation.
Yeah, exactly.
I did several interviews with Ann and I have her books.
Exactly.
Are you involved in that at all?
Thank you.
My specific responsibility to answer that question in that regard is to make sure that the library and the other academic units can and do work well together with each other so that we get as much standardized approach so that our students in dormitories and their homes and so forth can get at the interest.
Now, one thing that Anne's group does do, which is interesting, and I think she is aware of the possible controversy that it involves, and they've only done, when I was there, I think they're up to about 5,000 volumes.
They've got six million books at Cornell, so we're tackling a very small sample here.
But books that they select to make digital preservation copies of, you know, I mean, when I saw them, they looked like veal cutlets.
I mean, they'd been guillotined and stripped, and they get to have a nice flat surface, and then once they scan them, then they go off to the dump, you know?
Well, my first book was about Cassiodorus, and I'm looking across from it right now at the copy that, when it went out of print, I had to scan it.
And it's the same thing.
It's the corpse of the book now, the binding, the back binding has been ripped off, the pile of pages, and so forth.
And I sniff slightly when I look at that, although I can look up two shelves and see a couple copies of the real thing, and dust jackets, I feel a little better.
I think there's powerful imagery involved in the physical destruction of a book.
Now, Professor, could you do me a favor and just talk a little bit closer, more into the... Oh, sure.
Powerful imagery and the destruction of a book.
I am... I like to say that I have, in my lifetime, only thrown away one book.
It was actually Frank Herbert's Dune Messiah.
Such a god-awful favorite book.
I was so frustrated when I finished, I was walking down the hall in the apartment building, I just threw it down the trash chute in a bit.
Um...
That's slightly irrational in the sense that if there are, in fact, 2,000 copies of my first book in the world somewhere, destroying one of them in order to make an electronic copy that will be widely available to many more people is, on the face of it, a perfectly rational thing to do.
But I recognize the sort of chill in the stomach that I feel when I look at that, and I keep it to show people, to make them think about those kinds of things.
There's profound cultural worry about the destruction of artifacts.
I said a few minutes ago that books are still, in many respects, a better preservation medium than any electronic form is because the book can survive even if nobody pays any attention to it.
The manuscript of Cassiodorus that we use to look at those illustrations spent hundreds of years not being read, just sort of stashed away on the back shelves,
But you can do that with a book, and if it's not printed on acid-based paper, it's still there for you to look at.
And your interface technology is still as good as it ever was.
500 or 1,000 or 2,000 years later, electronic data, if you let it go for 10 years, can be suddenly inaccessible in a variety of ways.
I'm talking to Jeff Rothenberg next week on this precise subject.
I mean, there are strategies, but...
They're a strategy for preservation of a variety of kinds.
The one I saw just the other day, I think it was in Wired magazine or something, was that if you want to preserve your digital images, we will put them on some nickel substance, just made out of nickel.
But the only technology you'll need is a microscope, because what we're doing is printing them as images in incredibly tiny form.
This is in Wired?
I think it was in Wired.
I can't remember, though.
I just didn't know my stuff.
But someplace.
that preservation, taking the digital images and essentially printing them in really tiny forms on some physically durable material that even 5,000 years now you'll be able to look at.
Preservation of electronic information requires
social organization and collaboration of people in an ongoing way to make sure stuff is... Yeah, of course.
But to go back to your nickel preservation medium there, then you're going to have to have a... You still have to have the machine and the software to read it 2,000 years from now.
No, this one is actually printing it as images of only a microscope.
Oh, I see.
Okay.
We're kind of going back to the earlier form then, aren't we?
Visual representation would suffice.
But just microscopically reduced.
I think we're assuming that most future cultures will have microscopy as good as we do.
We could be wrong, but we're assuming that.
But it does require social organization and collaboration about what it is we're going to preserve and how we're going to do it.
And I can think easily...
of strategies whereby we'll be able to carry material forward from one generation to the next.
And we'll even carry lots of material forward that we're not conscious of.
But still, you won't find... If the floppy disk with my 1983 scholarly article falls down in a crack between a floor and a house someplace and is discovered 200 years from now, nobody's going to be able to read it.
If my doctoral dissertation winds up buried in a pile of rubble someplace on paper, 200 years from now, somebody could read it.
And that is a real difference, no problem.
And these are not just hypotheticals.
There's a case, which I was just reading in the New York Times, these papers that survived the Warsaw Ghetto, these doctors that did these, they literally hid them in the ground.
The other side of it is, my doctoral dissertation, I have to admit, didn't have exactly tens of thousands of readers.
And most of them were located within a few miles of where the thing was written.
By making it available electronically, there's loss of gain, cost of benefit.
You run some risk of preservation, but you also get the advantage of being able to reach many more people during what's sort of the natural lifetime of the artifact than you would have otherwise.
I like to point out that human beings, when they get new technology, generally accept the technology that gives them more power.
even when there are substantial costs that are associated with that.
And my example is the automobile.
When I get in my car and drive 55 miles an hour, I am implicitly accepting the fact that about 40,000 dead people a year is a reasonable price to pay for me driving 55 miles an hour.
I do not like that part of my personality very much.
I don't like to think about that part of my personality.
But you and I and all the rest of us have made, we could just say, okay, 20 miles an hour, that's it.
Nobody's going to make a vehicle that can go faster than cops will enforce it.
And we could save, I'm sure, tens of thousands of lives.
And even 20 miles an hour would have been a vast improvement over walking speed, you know, from pre-automotive technology.
But we've made a choice to do 55 miles an hour and...
If I'm not under rope here, I might even allow as to how occasionally I do a little more than 55.
Well, we have 65 in Massachusetts.
Well, there you go.
I might even have done more than 65 at some point in my life.
I think so.
I mean, I'm not swearing to this or anything.
But...
In so doing, we accept a cost that goes with that.
Well, it matters to me that I can get to New York City for my house in three hours.
Right, and New York City has a powerful value.
That's right.
Where do you live in Massachusetts?
Central Mass, near Worcester.
Okay.
People who lived there 100 years ago didn't see New York very often.
That's right.
And not only were they poorer, but in a way New York was poorer because part of what makes New York now is the flood of people from all over who are passing through at any given moment.
And the diversity of the community.
So that's an incredible benefit that we get.
And there's this incredible cost that we pay on the other side.
And we've more or less worked out in some kind of weird free market economics
our level of acceptable casualties in order to get this other cultural good.
We're not going to behave, I believe, human beings just aren't going to behave any differently when it comes to information technology than they do when it comes to automotive technology or medical technology or any such thing.
There's a book by a guy named Ed
Kenner, do you know that?
No.
Ed?
I can get the title for you on screen here in a second.
The title is something like, Why Things Bite Back.
Oh, I know the book, yep.
Okay, which is The Unintended Consequences of Technology.
I have a copy here someplace.
The drug-resistant, antibiotic-resistant bacteria and that sort of thing.
Edward Tenor, Why Things Bite Back.
Yeah.
Yeah, I have it here, actually.
Someplace.
I have to find it.
A lot of books.
Technology and the Revenge of Unintended Conflicts.
Yeah, great.
Well, I think it's a wise observation.
There's a lot of clever stuff in that book.
And I think it is a feature of how...
how human beings interact with the world.
I saw a wonderful... I was looking for something in Scientific American, the 1895 run there, and I was looking for this article.
I still haven't found it.
Well, they were talking about, even then, how the Brittle Book phenomenon, they didn't call it that, but papers were disintegrating, and so they warned against it.
This is like in 1895, and I saw a reference to it, and I wanted to find it.
I still haven't found it, but while I was looking...
In the microfilm, I run across a wonderful series of illustrations of this German inventor who has come up with headlights for horses, battery-powered.
And there are these illustrations of these horses, you know, with, like, headlights on their head and one on the harness.
And I said, boy, these people just didn't get where the technology was going.
Well, somebody was putting some technology work into those headlights.
It did pay off in the first headlights on...
On cars.
Yeah, probably.
They were miniaturizing and downsizing and making the power lighter and probably paid off, but just not in the way that they... But it's like really not seeing where the technology is actually going.
Well, I mean, look, when they talked about the first cars as horseless carriages.
That's right.
That was a way to help you think about what it did.
And it probably made the farmer think he was going to get to town quicker.
Well, we still have horsepower in our cars, don't we?
But, I mean, he thought of it as getting him to town quicker.
The farmer who lived 20-some miles from downtown Philadelphia in a place called King of Prussia, a pokey little village by the side of the road, did not imagine Interstate 76, the Pennsylvania Turnpike, and the largest shopping mall on the East Coast, unless somebody's built a bigger one recently.
uh sprouting up in his cornfield but that was a logical consequence of having that first horseless carriage come by if you'd asked that farmer do you think it would be a good idea to pave this all over and put up a walmart he might have had some ambiguous ideas about it but in the short term he was happy having some gadgets that would get into the
get him to the village faster, and it would help him tow his stuff around.
I've got to tell you a cute story regarding your book here.
In your Chapter 2, you start with this quote, California has stopped construction plans for university libraries, etc.
And then you cite Washington Post, 21 November 1993.
And I said, I've been...
trying to document the state of California actually having said that for reasons of this chapter.
And so I said, oh, so this is Washington Post.
So I've got a Lexnex, not the big, big one, but one for home use.
And it's really pretty.
I don't get the legal stuff, but I get everything else.
So I did a search of Washington Post, and it didn't pop up right away.
But then you have a feature.
If you want major stories or any mentions, so I put in Virtual Library, and it comes out.
It's a Michael Durda column.
You have it right.
There's no mistake here.
The irony here is I was going to call Michael Durda, who I know, and say, Michael, the only thing about this piece, well, he's the one who wrote it.
But his reference for that, his citation for that, was something called the Abbey Newsletter.
which I'd never heard of before, and now I find out that the Abbey newsletter is put out by this woman, formerly in Maryland, but now in Austin, Texas, and she apparently is the guru of preservation techniques, of paper-based things.
I mean, I haven't called it just yet, but I mean, I wouldn't have found this at all without technology, or I would have had to spend, we don't have any Washington Post here, microfilm, I'd have to go to Boston.
Well, let me tell you what's funny about that.
One reason why you found that is because I found that in LexisNexis.
Is that right?
And my other quotations there about virtual library are from LexisNexis.
And as I recall at that point, I was bashful about saying that I'd gotten it from LexisNexis because our contract with them for the university says we may use it only for purposes of teaching.
Really?
The librarians were on our case not to talk up too much that occasionally the use we made for teaching would slop over.
So I just didn't mention it, but you're getting back to, by your path, exactly the same thing.
Yeah, well, I have a personal contract with them, and I intend to mention LexisNexis as a research tool in this book.
They broadened our contract.
They were very fussy when we first got the relationship with them.
They've actually broadened it a bit.
I haven't gotten more sense.
There is a new university out in Monterey Bay on the site of Fort Ord, and when that was being established in 1993, they said, but they deny it now, that this university will be built without a library.
And, of course, the public relations flack that came out of that was, so they did put in a library, and now they're into their fifth year.
But I did a check the other day.
How many volumes, how many books would you think they have?
Now, this is a library that has over 2,000 students.
How many books would you... Well, actually, I know, I've met Peter Smith, the guy who runs that place.
I have some idea of the place.
I think they're probably making do with, I've put it on the order, between 10 and 100,000.
34,000.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, now, I tell you, you get a lot of... This goes back to early days of the conversation about this.
People say, oh, gosh, what will happen when we put the whole Library of Congress online?
How long would it take to do that?
How long would it take... It'll never happen.
Won't happen.
My argument back was in those days I used to live up the block from Bryn Mawr College here.
Bryn Mawr College is a very respectable academic institution with a wonderful library which doesn't run to more than half a million volumes.
That's all they have?
And in fact, yeah, it's a small college of, you know, 1,500 students.
Yeah, but I would have put that in the Williams Amherst million copy category.
Interesting.
No, they probably don't, but I just would have.
We're looking at a reference book.
I don't think they... No, no, I can check that out.
My number was... But my point was that even at half a million volumes, if you count that, which is no more than 5% of what the Library of Congress has, you've already got a huge cut of...
the books that, what, 99% of the population would find useful on any given day.
You've already got 25 copies of Moby Dick.
If it's electronic editions, you really can narrow it down to what are the different editions of Moby Dick that make a difference.
Is there, you know, the first printing and the third printing or something?
And I think, I don't think we have a good number for what sized collection of electronically available books
for how big that collection would have to be before, well, I'm sorry, there's several variables running here simultaneously.
How big a collection of books do you have to have scanned in electronic form before 90% of the academic population says, yeah, that's a really good library.
I can use that as my basic library, and I don't need a physical building except for
things I need to see face to face and research materials, rare materials, unusual things that I'm probably the only person hearing.
But, you know, I also address myself in this book I'm writing as to the numbers game.
You know, I mean, there is a lot of trash out there.
When libraries were building, in fact, if you go to ARL statistics today, you know, they still classify you by the number that you have.
And more is more reputable.
And I can introduce you to the cataloger in our library here who shudders every time the Indian government does another census.
Oh, I think so, sure.
You know, I mean, you'll never see another printed edition of the OED, and that's good.
Or the Encyclopedia Britannica.
You know, I mean, this thing is changing on a daily basis.
But, you know, what happened when they were building these libraries is that they acquired a lot of bulk.
I mean, just stuff, just for numbers.
I've documented the York University up in Toronto, for instance, in 1967.
That's when they opened.
They've got two million books today.
I mean, the first thing they did was send three trailer trucks down to Boston and clean out a second-hand bookstore.
And they sent another one to Montreal to do a similar thing with French titles.
I'll give you a tip on another one.
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.
Oh, I like that.
And I'll tell you why.
I've been there.
They were founded about ten years ago.
Hong Kong.
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.
I bet I can find something Lexnex on it, too, right?
Sure.
University of Science and Technology.
Gorgeous location.
Spectacular location.
I was out there and came to talk.
Just gorgeous.
But anyway, they founded a library about 10 years ago.
They recruited, she was deputy librarian, I think, at Caltech, who's now their head librarian, a Chinese-American, Chinese-born, American-trained...
took advantage to go back to China and run a library.
And she's brilliant.
She's well-known.
Do you know her name off the top?
Min Min Chang.
Oh, good for you.
Okay.
Anyway, they, in the Hong Kong of the late 80s and 90s, were just plain rich.
Their acquisition strategy was buy every book you can.
And when you go into there, I think I might even mention it in the book somewhere.
Maybe I do.
You go in there and they've bought all brand new copies of books.
If the book is in print, they're buying it from any reputable publisher that might have scholarly and scientific material.
Hong Kong U of Science and Technology, my three-volume edition and commentary on the Latin text only of Augustine's Confessions is sitting there.
I don't think it's ever going to be read there.
But anyway, they're... Well, it's okay.
It's there.
It matters.
My point is that it might be interesting to find out what number they've gotten to in 10 years.
And if it's still the policy.
And if it's still the policy with the change in Hong Kong government now.
Well, not just Hong Kong government, but with technology now.
Um, let's see, I was there in summer of 95, spring of 95, and they were buying grapes, that much I know.
They were still?
Yep.
Boy, you wouldn't have this gal's phone number, would you?
Um...
If you can find it.
Yeah, this would be great.
This would be good.
Just to switch briefly here for a second.
By the way, has the Philadelphia Inquirer done anything on you?
Inquirer?
I don't think so, no.
I do occasional things for them.
Generally, it requires a face-to-face, but I'm going to give the editor over there a call.
I think it would be a good story for them.
But we'll see.
Okay.
Plus, I have a group of newspapers I write for.
So there were a lot of things we could do here.
Let's jump if we can.
I've got to leave for Boston.
I'm having lunch today.
You'll find this interesting.
With probably the most notable architect of academic libraries in the world, a guy in Boston who's doing stuff for Harvard.
He did the Getty.
He's doing Butler Live.
I really want to find out.
the thought that goes into the design of a library today for the 21st century.
What do you feel about the library as the soul of a university?
Obviously, this whole concept is... Well, interesting how you put it that way.
Soul is a... Well, the heart.
Some people call it the heart.
The faculty is the brain and the library is the heart.
Those are metaphors from organic life.
If a library is just a warehouse of dead tree material, there is no life in it at all.
Well, let me just interrupt.
The soul is not organic, though, is it?
It's not organic.
It's animate, so yes.
But it's animate rather than inanimate.
And as I say, if all it is is a warehouse in which you put a lot of dead tree material with black marks on it, it's not.
Well, then it's a warehouse.
It's a warehouse.
And no library attracts our loyalty because of the dead material that's in it.
It attracts our loyalty because of the living intellectual conversations that we have with both the dead and with our living colleagues and friends around the world.
Libraries already, when I was an undergraduate at Princeton 30 years ago, they already had one of the first to be off-campus storage facilities.
for little-used books.
There's a lot of movement in that direction.
At Harvard, I don't know if you know the Harvard Depository.
I start a chapter at the Harvard Depository.
I mean, that's a hugely successful... Well, that's going to house 20 million volumes.
Yeah.
And that puts a whole lot of the warehousing outside of Widener.
And yet, from what I hear, the Harvard folks, Harvard faculty, pretty stuffy guys, are pretty happy with the service that they get.
Well, because they were involved in the planning and the choice.
And to determine which books, and I go into this, how the books are selected to go there.
Exactly.
They're doing it now.